.\" Majestic Lisp manpage
.\" Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Lucas S. Vieira
.TH majestic 1 "Updated 2021-01-23" "majestic-0.3.9" "MAJESTIC"
.SH "NAME"
.P
majestic \- \fIMajestic Lisp Interpreter\fP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.P
majestic [\fB\-l\fP | \fB\-\-load\fP \fIfile\fP] [\fB\-e\fP | \fB\-\-eval\fP \fIcommand\fP]
         [\fB\-s\fP | \fB\-\-silent\fP] [\fB\-q\fP | \fB\-\-quit\fP] [\fB\-h\fP | \fB\-?\fP | \fB\-\-help\fP]
         [\fB\-\-script\fP \fIfile\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.P
\fIMajestic Lisp\fP is a programming language, a dialect of Lisp
built mostly for educational purposes. It is inspired by Lisp
dialects such as Bel, Common Lisp and Clojure. It also draws some
inspiration from languages such as APL. It is written as a
\fIliterate program\fP in book form, so that readers can
reimplement it and learn more about the implementation of Lisp
languages.
.PP
The goals of \fIMajestic Lisp\fP are:
.TP 2
\-
To provide a language which could have an educational purpose,
through a didatic implementation.
.TP
\-
To delegate performance favoring correctness, as performance is
not a central topic, though it is desired at some points.
.TP
\-
To provide a simple dialect of a Lisp language, so that veteran
Lisp programmers could feel at home while using it.
.TP
\-
To show that designing and implementing your own Lisp language is
not an intangible task.
.TP
\-
To provide a language simple enough so that even if the programmer
is unable to execute its interpreter, he or she could still predict
the outcome of an evaluation algebrically.
.PP
The program \fImajestic\fP is the first implementation of \fIMajestic Lisp\fP, built using the Rust language. Its prose is written using Org on Emacs.
.SH "GENERAL USAGE"
Most of \fImajestic\fP's usage can be done through an interactive prompt,
known as a \fBREPL\fP (Read-Evaluate-Print-Loop).
The \fBREPL\fP starts expecting the user input with an angled bracket (">").
The user may then write a valid language command and press \fPEnter\fP.
Afterwards, the interpreter will attempt to evaluate the expression and
print its results. Should the process fail, the \fBREPL\fP will print an
error message, then go back to the prompt which expects user input.
.PP
The user may exit the application anytime by typing Control-C or Control-D.
.SS "DEBUG COMMANDS"
The user may debug the tokenization process by entering the command \fI#t\fP
at the \fBREPL\fP.
.SH "COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS"
.PP
\fImajestic\fP recognizes the following command-line arguments:
.TP 1i
.B -l, --load \fIfile\fP
Load and evaluate the contents of \fIfile\fP. This will leave a \fBREPL\fP
prompt open afterwards so that the user can input commands, unless specified
by the \fB\-\-quit\fP flag. This option may also be repeated; the files will
be loaded in the order they are given. If the parsing or tokenization
operations fail for a given file, the subsequent files will not be loaded.
Loading of files take priority over execution of commands from command line.
.TP
.B -e, --eval \fIcommand\fP
Evaluate the string \fIcommand\fP. This will leave a \fBREPL\fP prompt open
afterwards so that the user can input commands, unless specified by the
\fB\-\-quit\fP flag. This option may also be repeated; the commands will be
evaluated in the order they are given. The evaluation of commands will not
be interrupted by ordinary failures of any kind. Evaluation of commands
will only happen after all files loaded are processed, and will carry on
even when the file loading fails.
.TP
.B -s, --silent
Inhibit output of greeting ribbon and prompt.
.TP
.B -q, --quit
Suppress the \fBREPL\fP, exiting the application after all files and commands
given through the command line are processed.
.TP
.B -h, -?, --help
Shows a help prompt.
.TP
.B --script \fIfile\fB
Loads a file and bails out. Same as \fB--silent\fP \fB--quit\fP \fB--load\fP \fIfile\fP.
.SH "MAJESTIC LISP SCRIPTS"
Generally, \fBmajestic\fP will attempt to ignore whenever the first line of a
file is initialized with a shebang ("#!"). This means that, even when using
\fB\-\-load\fP or \fB\-\-script\fP, the file will be loaded normally.
.PP
This enables for the possibility of using Majestic Lisp as a scripting
language. But this will only happen if the exact two first characters of the
given file are "#!", which will be treated as a comment such as ";;".
.PP
The code below is an example of the contents of a script file for Majestic
Lisp, assuming that \fImajestic\fP is installed under \fI/usr/bin/majestic\fP.
This script will create an output file \fItestfile.txt\fP on the current
directory for output, and then will close it immediately.

.br
.EX
#!/usr/bin/majestic --script
(cls (ops "testfile.txt" 'out))
.EE
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
\fImajestic\fP is still beta quality, so it is possible that it does not
fully comply with its specification or has some bugs. Here is a list of its
known problematic bits.
.TP 2
\-
There is currently no unicode support.
.TP
\-
Partial application can be problematic on variadic arguments,
specially on particular cases where all arguments are variadic.
.TP
\-
Number arithmetic is not implemented or may not be fully implemented.
.TP
\-
The codebase is still largely untested and may need refactoring for
acceptable execution speeds.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Lucas S. Vieira.
.br
Licensed under the MIT License.
